README.md, before:

# How to Host a Resume on GitHub Pages

## Purpose

These instructions describe the steps to follow in order to host a resume and README on GitHub Pages. This will be accomplished by using a variety of tools and principles explored in Andrew Etter's book _Modern Technical Writing_. A link to Andrew Etter's book can be found in the "More Resources" section of this README.


## Prerequisites

Requirements for this tutorial is a working knowledge of Markdown. Additionally, a resume formatted in Markdown is also required to complete this guide. If you are inexperienced with Markdown, or would simply like to brush-up your skills, you may find the included Markdown tutorial helpful.

- [Markdown Guide](https://www.markdownguide.org/basic-syntax/)

## Instructions


### Creating a GitHub Pages account


  1. Click the following link to create a [GitHub](https://github.com/signup?user_email=&source=form-home-signup) account.

  2. Choose a GitHub username that reflects your preferred name. This is because which ever user name you choose will be apart of your site address.

  3. Sign into your GitHub account and select the green (create a) *NEW* (repository) button as shown below.

  ![Create a new repository](https://github.com/RyanDCampbell/RyanDCampbell.github.io/blob/366344cdce03e774a4f1f546f04dd6760714d090/images/CreateRepo.PNG)

  **WARNING:** When naming your new repository, make sure it is named *username*.github.io, where *username* is the GitHub account username you selected in step 2.

###  Installing Software

There are a few programs that you will need to have installed before we can host your resume on GitHub Pages. Namely, Atom, GitHub Desktop, RubyInstaller and Jekyll. .Ruby is required by Jekyll as a Prerequisite.. Lastly, Jekyll turns our Markdown formatted document and converts in into a static website that we will host on GitHub Pages.


#### 1) Installing Atom

 Atom is the Markdown editor we will be using for this guide. GitHub Desktop will be used to push the changes we make to our static site


  1. Click the following link to download and install [Atom](https://atom.io/).

  2. Run the Atom installer, and complete the installation with the default installation settings.


  ![image](https://gyazo.com/e8d92b3ba3023758769e873ef1a67f39)




#### 2) Installing GitHub Desktop

GitHub Desktop is the software that we will be using to update our static site with the changes that have been made to the Markdown resume.  GitHub gives us some very useful tools as described in *Modern Technical Writing*. Two advantages of using GitHub is version control and community contributions.

 Version control gives us a way of tracking the changes that have been made to the project, and a way of restoring our project to a previous version.

 Community contributions embrace the benefits of open source. By publicly hosting projects, other GitHub community members can contribute to your project. They can suggest changes and fixes, helping you to add an extra layer of polish to your projects.

 1. Click the following link to download and install [GitHub Desktop](https://desktop.github.com/).

 2. Run the GitHub Desktop installer using the default installation settings.

 3. Enter your GitHub account user name and password to log into GitHub Desktop.



#### 3) Installing Ruby

  1. Click the following link to download and install [Ruby+Devkit](https://rubyinstaller.org/downloads/).

  2. Select the Ruby+Devkit 2.7.X (64) to download the installer, as it is the recommended version to use.

  3. Run the Ruby+Devkit installer when the download completes.

  4. Proceed through the installation process, using the default installation options.

  5. When the installation has completed, ensure that the checkbox is selected as in the following image.  

  ![Successful Ruby Install](https://github.com/RyanDCampbell/RyanDCampbell.github.io/blob/366344cdce03e774a4f1f546f04dd6760714d090/images/RubySetup.PNG)

  6. Select finish.

  7. Verify that Ruby was successfully installed by opening a command prompt window, and entering the following command:


    ruby -v


  If Ruby was successfully installed, you will get the following feedback from command prompt:

  ![Verify Ruby Installed](https://github.com/RyanDCampbell/RyanDCampbell.github.io/blob/366344cdce03e774a4f1f546f04dd6760714d090/images/VerifyRuby.PNG)




#### 4) Installing Jekyll

  1. Open a new command prompt window.

  2. Enter and run the following command:


    gem install jekyll bundler  


    If Jekyll was successfully installed, you will get the following output to command prompt:

      ![Jekyll Installed](https://github.com/RyanDCampbell/RyanDCampbell.github.io/blob/366344cdce03e774a4f1f546f04dd6760714d090/images/JekyllInstalled.PNG)




## Preparing the Repository

  1. Open a new command prompt window.

  2. Navigate to the following directory, where USERNAME is the name of your Windows profile.


    C:\Users\USERNAME\Documents\GitHub


  3. Create a new Jekyll site by entering the following command, where username.github.io appears exactly as in your GitHub account.  **WARNING** If the Jekyll site is not created with the exact name as on GitHub, it will not work.


    jekyll new username.github.io


  4. Open GitHub desktop.

  5. Clone your GitHub repository by clicking on File -> Clone Repository.

  6. Select the repository that was created earlier from the list.

  7. Select clone to setup the repository locally on your computer.



## Building and Uploading the Site

  1. Copy your Markdown formatted resume to the following location.


      C:\Users\USERNAME\Documents\GitHub\username.github.io

  2. Rename your Markdown resume to "index" (ensure to keep the Markdown extension).

  3. Open a new command prompt window and change the directory to the GitHub project's directory listed in step 1.

  4. Build the static site with Jekyll by running the following command.


    bundle exec


  5. Open GitHub Desktop, and commit the changes to GitHub as shown below.  A summary of changes is required to submit the changes.

  ![GitHub Desktop Commit](https://github.com/RyanDCampbell/RyanDCampbell.github.io/blob/a5b3fda65d30497f461257592cba715540d581bc/images/Commit.PNG)




### Congrats! You Just Published Your Markdown Resume Online

Once the above steps are completed, your site will be ready for viewing.

1. Open any web browser of your choosing.

2. Navigate to username.github.io to view your site.


## More Resources:

- [GitHub Pages](https://pages.github.com/) - A link to GitHub Pages has the steps needed to create an account
- [Markdown Guide](https://www.markdownguide.org/basic-syntax/) -  A very good guide to get you started in Markdown, or simply brush-up your skills.
- [Modern Technical Writing](https://www.amazon.ca/Modern-Technical-Writing-Introduction-Documentation-ebook/dp/B01A2QL9SS) - A link to Andrew Etter's book *Modern Technical Writing*.
- [Jekyll Quickstart Guide] (https://jekyllrb.com/docs/) - A link to Jekyll's guide on how to get their software up and running.


## Built With

  - [Atom](https://atom.io/) - Used as a Markdown editor.
  - [GitHub Pages](https://pages.github.com/) - Used to host the static site.
  - [Jekyll](https://jekyllrb.com/) - Used for generating a static site from a Markdown file.
  - [Contributor Covenant](https://www.contributor-covenant.org/) - Used
for the Code of Conduct
  - [Creative Commons](https://creativecommons.org/) - Used to choose
    the license

## Contributing

Please read [CONTRIBUTING.md](CONTRIBUTING.md) for details on our code
of conduct, and the process for submitting pull requests to us.


## Authors & Acknowledgments

- **Ryan Campbell** - *Wrote the guide on how to host a resume and README on GitHub Pages* -
- **Kevin Kim** - *Provided support on getting Jekyll and GitHub Pages setup. Also peer reviewed this guide* -
- **Joshua Moreira** - *Peer reviewed this guide* -
- **Ikram Khan Shipon** - *Peer reviewed this guide* -
- **Anton Sikorsky** - *Peer reviewed this guide* -
- **Billie Thompson** - *Provided README Template* -
    [PurpleBooth](https://github.com/PurpleBooth)

- [Modern Technical Writing](https://www.amazon.ca/Modern-Technical-Writing-Introduction-Documentation-ebook/dp/B01A2QL9SS) - A link to Andrew Etter's book *Modern Technical Writing*.

See also the list of
[contributors](https://github.com/PurpleBooth/a-good-readme-template/contributors)
who participated in the README template project.

## FAQs

Why is Markdown better than a word processor?
  - As suggested in Andrew Etter's book, Markdown is a very simple and light weight. Markdown files can be read on any platform by any basic text editor. The Markdown file format is openly available for anyone to use and is widely supported. A raw Markdown file is also very easy to read, as the formatting is clean and minimal.

Why is my resume not showing up?
  - Ensure to process your Markdown file will Jekyll before committing your changes to GitHub.  This can be done by opening a command prompt window and navigating to the root of your GitHub project and running the following command.


    bundle exec


## License

This project is licensed under the [CC0 1.0 Universal](LICENSE.md)
Creative Commons License - see the [LICENSE.md](LICENSE.md) file for
details

Commit message:

Adding details to Atom tutorial

README.md, after:

# How to Host a Resume on GitHub Pages

## Purpose

These instructions describe the steps to follow in order to host a resume and README on GitHub Pages. This will be accomplished by using a variety of tools and principles explored in Andrew Etter's book _Modern Technical Writing_. A link to Andrew Etter's book can be found in the "More Resources" section of this README.


## Prerequisites

Requirements for this tutorial is a working knowledge of Markdown. Additionally, a resume formatted in Markdown is also required to complete this guide. If you are inexperienced with Markdown, or would simply like to brush-up your skills, you may find the included Markdown tutorial helpful.

- [Markdown Guide](https://www.markdownguide.org/basic-syntax/)

## Instructions


### Creating a GitHub Pages account


  1. Click the following link to create a [GitHub](https://github.com/signup?user_email=&source=form-home-signup) account.

  2. Choose a GitHub username that reflects your preferred name. This is because which ever user name you choose will be apart of your site address.

  3. Sign into your GitHub account and select the green (create a) *NEW* (repository) button as shown below.

  ![Create a new repository](https://github.com/RyanDCampbell/RyanDCampbell.github.io/blob/366344cdce03e774a4f1f546f04dd6760714d090/images/CreateRepo.PNG)

  **WARNING:** When naming your new repository, make sure it is named *username*.github.io, where *username* is the GitHub account username you selected in step 2.

###  Installing Software

There are a few programs that you will need to have installed before we can host your resume on GitHub Pages. Namely, Atom, GitHub Desktop, RubyInstaller and Jekyll. .Ruby is required by Jekyll as a Prerequisite.. Lastly, Jekyll turns our Markdown formatted document and converts in into a static website that we will host on GitHub Pages.


#### 1) Installing Atom

 Atom is the Markdown editor we will be using for this guide. GitHub Desktop will be used to push the changes we make to our static site


  1. Click the following link to download and install [Atom](https://atom.io/).

  2. Run the Atom installer, and complete the installation with the default installation settings.

  3. Open Atom when it has finished installing.

  4. **TIP** Enable the "Markdown Preview" feature as shown below. This feature allows you to see a live preview of how the Markdown will look once it has been processed. I found this feature way harder to find then it should be.


  ![image](https://gyazo.com/e8d92b3ba3023758769e873ef1a67f39)



#### 2) Installing GitHub Desktop

GitHub Desktop is the software that we will be using to update our static site with the changes that have been made to the Markdown resume.  GitHub gives us some very useful tools as described in *Modern Technical Writing*. Two advantages of using GitHub is version control and community contributions.

 Version control gives us a way of tracking the changes that have been made to the project, and a way of restoring our project to a previous version.

 Community contributions embrace the benefits of open source. By publicly hosting projects, other GitHub community members can contribute to your project. They can suggest changes and fixes, helping you to add an extra layer of polish to your projects.

 1. Click the following link to download and install [GitHub Desktop](https://desktop.github.com/).

 2. Run the GitHub Desktop installer using the default installation settings.

 3. Enter your GitHub account user name and password to log into GitHub Desktop.



#### 3) Installing Ruby

  1. Click the following link to download and install [Ruby+Devkit](https://rubyinstaller.org/downloads/).

  2. Select the Ruby+Devkit 2.7.X (64) to download the installer, as it is the recommended version to use.

  3. Run the Ruby+Devkit installer when the download completes.

  4. Proceed through the installation process, using the default installation options.

  5. When the installation has completed, ensure that the checkbox is selected as in the following image.  

  ![Successful Ruby Install](https://github.com/RyanDCampbell/RyanDCampbell.github.io/blob/366344cdce03e774a4f1f546f04dd6760714d090/images/RubySetup.PNG)

  6. Select finish.

  7. Verify that Ruby was successfully installed by opening a command prompt window, and entering the following command:


    ruby -v


  If Ruby was successfully installed, you will get the following feedback from command prompt:

  ![Verify Ruby Installed](https://github.com/RyanDCampbell/RyanDCampbell.github.io/blob/366344cdce03e774a4f1f546f04dd6760714d090/images/VerifyRuby.PNG)




#### 4) Installing Jekyll

  1. Open a new command prompt window.

  2. Enter and run the following command:


    gem install jekyll bundler  


    If Jekyll was successfully installed, you will get the following output to command prompt:

      ![Jekyll Installed](https://github.com/RyanDCampbell/RyanDCampbell.github.io/blob/366344cdce03e774a4f1f546f04dd6760714d090/images/JekyllInstalled.PNG)




## Preparing the Repository

  1. Open a new command prompt window.

  2. Navigate to the following directory, where USERNAME is the name of your Windows profile.


    C:\Users\USERNAME\Documents\GitHub


  3. Create a new Jekyll site by entering the following command, where username.github.io appears exactly as in your GitHub account.  **WARNING** If the Jekyll site is not created with the exact name as on GitHub, it will not work.


    jekyll new username.github.io


  4. Open GitHub desktop.

  5. Clone your GitHub repository by clicking on File -> Clone Repository.

  6. Select the repository that was created earlier from the list.

  7. Select clone to setup the repository locally on your computer.



## Building and Uploading the Site

  1. Copy your Markdown formatted resume to the following location.


      C:\Users\USERNAME\Documents\GitHub\username.github.io

  2. Rename your Markdown resume to "index" (ensure to keep the Markdown extension).

  3. Open a new command prompt window and change the directory to the GitHub project's directory listed in step 1.

  4. Build the static site with Jekyll by running the following command.


    bundle exec


  5. Open GitHub Desktop, and commit the changes to GitHub as shown below.  A summary of changes is required to submit the changes.

  ![GitHub Desktop Commit](https://github.com/RyanDCampbell/RyanDCampbell.github.io/blob/a5b3fda65d30497f461257592cba715540d581bc/images/Commit.PNG)




### Congrats! You Just Published Your Markdown Resume Online

Once the above steps are completed, your site will be ready for viewing.

1. Open any web browser of your choosing.

2. Navigate to username.github.io to view your site.


## More Resources:

- [GitHub Pages](https://pages.github.com/) - A link to GitHub Pages has the steps needed to create an account
- [Markdown Guide](https://www.markdownguide.org/basic-syntax/) -  A very good guide to get you started in Markdown, or simply brush-up your skills.
- [Modern Technical Writing](https://www.amazon.ca/Modern-Technical-Writing-Introduction-Documentation-ebook/dp/B01A2QL9SS) - A link to Andrew Etter's book *Modern Technical Writing*.
- [Jekyll Quickstart Guide] (https://jekyllrb.com/docs/) - A link to Jekyll's guide on how to get their software up and running.


## Built With

  - [Atom](https://atom.io/) - Used as a Markdown editor.
  - [GitHub Pages](https://pages.github.com/) - Used to host the static site.
  - [Jekyll](https://jekyllrb.com/) - Used for generating a static site from a Markdown file.
  - [Contributor Covenant](https://www.contributor-covenant.org/) - Used
for the Code of Conduct
  - [Creative Commons](https://creativecommons.org/) - Used to choose
    the license

## Contributing

Please read [CONTRIBUTING.md](CONTRIBUTING.md) for details on our code
of conduct, and the process for submitting pull requests to us.


## Authors & Acknowledgments

- **Ryan Campbell** - *Wrote the guide on how to host a resume and README on GitHub Pages* -
- **Kevin Kim** - *Provided support on getting Jekyll and GitHub Pages setup. Also peer reviewed this guide* -
- **Joshua Moreira** - *Peer reviewed this guide* -
- **Ikram Khan Shipon** - *Peer reviewed this guide* -
- **Anton Sikorsky** - *Peer reviewed this guide* -
- **Billie Thompson** - *Provided README Template* -
    [PurpleBooth](https://github.com/PurpleBooth)

- [Modern Technical Writing](https://www.amazon.ca/Modern-Technical-Writing-Introduction-Documentation-ebook/dp/B01A2QL9SS) - A link to Andrew Etter's book *Modern Technical Writing*.

See also the list of
[contributors](https://github.com/PurpleBooth/a-good-readme-template/contributors)
who participated in the README template project.

## FAQs

Why is Markdown better than a word processor?
  - As suggested in Andrew Etter's book, Markdown is a very simple and light weight. Markdown files can be read on any platform by any basic text editor. The Markdown file format is openly available for anyone to use and is widely supported. A raw Markdown file is also very easy to read, as the formatting is clean and minimal.

Why is my resume not showing up?
  - Ensure to process your Markdown file will Jekyll before committing your changes to GitHub.  This can be done by opening a command prompt window and navigating to the root of your GitHub project and running the following command.


    bundle exec


## License

This project is licensed under the [CC0 1.0 Universal](LICENSE.md)
Creative Commons License - see the [LICENSE.md](LICENSE.md) file for
details
